This document compiles the code and data used for the literature review and functional trait selection process for the creation of a Global Bat Trait Database. This repository is maintained by Roberto A. Ruiz-Ramírez. Any questions or inquiries: [roberto.ruiz\@posgrado.ecologia.edu.mx](mailto:roberto.ruiz@posgrado.ecologia.edu.mx){.email}

This database is part of the first chapter of the PhD thesis "*Assessment of knowledge gaps in bats: a macroecological perspective*" which is being carried out by [Roberto Antonio Ruiz-Ramírez](https://maevolab.mx/authors/roberto/) at the [Evolutionary Macroecology Lab](https://maevolab.mx/){style="font-size: 11pt;"}. This chapter focuses on the assessment of knowledge gaps and biases in the information available on bat functional traits at a global level.

Functional traits (FT) – well-defined, measurable, morphophysiological and ecological characteristics that influence the fitness of individuals – have been used to model numerous ecological processes, as well as responses to environmental changes in diverse organisms and biological communities (Funk et al., 2017; Zakharova et al., 2019; Etard et al., 2020; Dawson et al., 2021). Thanks to their utility, their use has been extended to numerous taxonomic groups, unfortunately, the available information about species’ functional traits is incomplete (Rauenkerian shortfall; Hortal et al. 2015). Mainly, there are geographical biases (e.g. towards easily accessible areas) and taxonomic biases (e.g. towards abundant, easy-to-catch, or charismatic species) (Verde-Arregoitia, 2016; Troudet et al., 2017; dos Santos et al., 2020; Etard et al., 2020; García-Roselló et al., 2023). The lack of available information and existing biases limit the interpretation of results about the importance of FTs in a region or taxon studied, as well as the extrapolation and generalization to other regions or species not considered, therefore, the quantity and quality of the information must be evaluated (Zakharova et al., 2019; Etard et al., 2020). As in other organisms, a FT approach has recently been promoted for the study of bats and their responses to changes in their environment (Castillo-Figueroa & Pérez-Torres, 2021). However, despite their importance, to date there is no robust assessment of the completeness and geographic and taxonomic representativeness of functional traits for the order Chiroptera at a global level. Therefore, we ask the following question: Which are the most important gaps and biases in knowledge of the functional traits of the order Chiroptera at a global level? Given the available evidence on the gaps and biases found in trait assessments for several taxa, as well as in previous assessments made for specific dimensions of bat functional traits, we hypothesize that taxonomic and geographic biases will be found in the study of the bat functional trait towards taxa which are more easily captured and widely distributed, as well as towards the most accessible and studied areas.

The specific objectives of this chapter are: 1) to identify the gaps and biases in the knowledge of the functional traits of the order Chiroptera at a global level, and 2) to create a global bat functional trait database.

<br>
<br>